Let's talk about Next.js
So Next.js is a framework for building websites
and apps with React.
So React is a library that basically all React
does is it takes your data and it puts it
into templates and it renders that out to the page.
And when your data changes
it will update the thing on the page.
That's it.
And in the Next.js an entire framework.
It does routing linking from page to page lazy loading.
It's starting to do images now
which is really cool at the server side rendering.
So you can render React on the server.
It does static for pre rendering
does a whole bunch of really cool stuff.
And it's just a really slick framework
for creating a website or an app.
What I've got open here is I've gone into the front-end
directory of our, of what we're working with.
And then I've opened that up in our vs code.
And you're gonna see a whole bunch of folders in here.
And I know some of you are thinking Wes don't
give me too much starter files.
I wanna be able to code it myself.
I wanna a refund.
Well, there's nothing in here.
There's a couple of styles
which is we're not gonna sit here
and write the CSS all day where we will write some
of the CSS, the lib, nothing in there, node modules
that's everything we NPM installed pages, nothing in there.
These gitkeep files are just so
that I can put an empty folder into, into get
what else do we got here?
We got our public.
There's a favicon, which is that a little bit
of CSS for one of the plugins we're using
and then a font that we're using on the website.
And that is it.
And that's what I really like about Next.js
is that you can just create pages
and then it will go ahead and work.
So let's go into our pages director here
and I'm gonna make an index.js.
And you'll notice that I did a lowercase I on there
normally when we create components in React
we put a capital on there
and that's because that denotes them as reusable components.
In this case, it's just a page.
And that index js will be
are very similar to how HTML works.
So it'd be our index HTML.
And then what you do in each
of your pages is you export a React function.
And that will be what shows up on the page.
So if we say export default function, and in here
we'll just return <div>.
And we'll put a paragraph that says hello in it.
Now, in order to start it, let's take a look
at our package.jason, and we'll go to our scripts.
You'll see we've got a dev, which is our dev command.
We have our build command
which is what you run before you deploy it.
You have your start command
which is what you use to run it on
and production that goes on your server.
And then we have a testing
and sometimes there's gonna be other
you might not see these by now.
It depends on what we do by the end of the course.
So in order to run it, you simply
you've already gone and done NPM install, right?
And then we run NPM run dev
and that will in turn, run next.
I'm running it on port 7777, open it up.
It takes a real quick second to sort a start up next.js.
And there you go.
You see, we have hello in there.
So the pages in Next.js are
they do what's called file system based routing.
If you've taken, maybe one of my I'm a beginner
JavaScript course where we use React redder.
That is like config based where we have like a
a rack rudder component.
And in this case
we simply just create a page and the page will show up.
So if we take a look at our other versions here
we've got our index page, we've got our products page.
We have our cell page, we have our orders page.
We have our account page and that is it.
So let's go ahead and make those really quickly.
Oh, one more thing.
Actually, what I should do is this is currently
an anonymous function and we should name that just so that
if we ever have debugging errors that it's actually named
so we'll call it index page or homepage.
It doesn't matter what you call it.
It's just great for, for debugging.
So I'm gonna go ahead and make a new page.
We'll call it, sell.js and you just take the cop copy
paste and change that index page to sell.
And there are snippets that you can get that will sort
of make this much faster.
I think it's like rack component.
Yeah. See something like that.
That is a React snippet one.
I'm just gonna to type or copy paste it.
So don't email me asking me why I'm not using those.
Let's also just save that one as
orders.js was that orders let's double check.
Yep. And we also have another one called account.
Actually, let's change this.
We forgot. Let's change it to order page.
Let's change this one to account.js.
And I believe that is all.
We need also need products.
So we'll save the last one as products.js
Okay.
So what we've done there is we've created all of our pages.
And now if we go
to four slash account or four slash products
you'll see that it is up and running.
One really neat thing that Next.js does is it
has hot reloading.
So if we were to change this to Hey and give it a save
you'll see it immediately changes that happens
with our CSS and our JavaScript.
So very rarely on the front-end
will we need to go back to our terminal
and kill it and start it again
just because it will always hot reload it.
It will also give you a really nice little error messages.
Remember I forgot the name, the function here.
It gives us this really nice air messages
like, Hey, it works, but probably a good idea
in order to get better debugging message.
Give it a name.
So I'm a big fan of that.
Other things we need to know
about Next.js is that it is server rendered.
Meaning that if you go to a Next.js website
and you were to view source on it, and this is not true
in development mode, but this is true in production mode.
If you were to right click view source, you would see all
of the HTML for the rendered out production version of that.
And then what happens is that React will come
and rehydrate on the front-end.
So if you go to wesbos.com/about here
let me show you a real quick example
see this value right here.
This is a React component that is incrementing
how many milliseconds I've been a developer.
And that just every couple of milliseconds,
it will then update.
It's often re render that part of the page.
Now, if you were to view source on this, is it exactly.
Here we go.
See it says exactly six six one, one or whatever.
And that's awesome because that is good for SEO.
And that will render it out.
If someone has JavaScript turned
off or someone scrapes the page
or Google crawls it or something like that.
So that's the server rendered aspect of JavaScript.
And then when it gets to the client
which is the browser React, we'll pick it
up from there or Next.js year we'll pick it up from there
and then make it a React application.
That's gonna give us really slick, like page transitions.
You see, like here, if I go from page to page
this is not actually reloading the page.
It's just swapping out the content that we see.
And that's one of the really nice things that Next.js does.
Other things we need to know about Next.js
Is that it is server rendered, like I said
but it also can be statically rendered, meaning that
at build time you could possibly re pre-render these pages
so that they load really, really quickly.
Like, let me show you an example.
Let me click on, on this one right here.
I've never been to it before.
See it took, it was really quick, but it took a split second
because it had to go to the database and bring the data back
data back and then render it out to the page.
What you could do is you could pre-render this whole thing.
This is called statically, render it.
And then when someone visits this page, it will have already
been made into HTML.
And it just makes your website that much faster.
So you can opt into server, rendering
Or static rendering.
There are three different hooks called get static props
get server-side props
and get initial props for data fetching.
We'll get into that in the future
but just know sort of that's how it works for now.
I think that's good, very, very high level intro
of what Next.js does in the next couple of videos
we'll get into linking and styling and all that good stuff.